README.md, before:

# HOME ASSISTANT HEALTH CHECKER

This is a really easy project to check the health of my **Home Assistant** installation on **Proxmox**.

It just checks periodically if the **Home Assistant** instance is up, and if not _stops_ and _starts_ again the _VM_ in **Proxmox**.

## Configuration (Environment Variables)

In order to work the program properly you need to set up some environment variables, to configure the access to **Home Assistant**, **Proxmox** and **Telegram** to notify you.

### For Home Assistant:
* **HA_URL_INTERNAL** (mandatory) The internal url in your network for the Home Assistant Installation.
> for example: https://192.168.1.111:8123
* **HA_URL_EXTERNAL** (mandatory)
> for example: https://myHomeAssistant.myDomain.com
* **HA_KEY** (mandatory) The key to have access to the Home Assistant API. For more info check [here](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/api/rest/).

### For Proxmox:
* **PROXMOX_URL** (mandatory) The URL of your Proxmox installation.
* > for example: https://192.168.1.111:8006
* **PROXMOX_KEY** (mandatory) The PVEAPIToken to use the proxmox API. More info [here](https://pve.proxmox.com/wiki/Proxmox_VE_API).
* **PROXMOX_VM_PATH** (mandatory) The path to the specific container or VM that hosts your Home Assistant installation.
* > for example: nodes/{your_node_name}/qemu/{your_vm/ct_id}/status

### For Telegram:
The notifications via Telegram are optional, if both variables are not filled, the system will work correctly but without notifying the changes. Only by the process itself.
For more information check [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api).
* **TELEGRAM_URL** (optional) The part of the URL that contains the bot information and the key. Format _{botId}:{key}_
> for example: bot123456:ABC************************
* **TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID** (optional) The ID of the chat that you want to send the messages to.
> for example: 12345678

### Other Variables:
* **RETRY_COUNT** (optional) This is the number of retries that the program should wait until stop/start again the **Home Assistant** VM instance in **Proxmox**
If no value is provided, the programs uses **3 by default**.
> for example: 8
* **SLEEP_TIME_SECONDS** (optional) This is the number of seconds that the process wait to check if **Home Assistant** is alive.
If no value is provided, the programs uses **60 seconds by default**.
> for example: 100

## Makefile

Inside the Makefile you have some commands:

> ```make run``` It runs the container, it needs a .env file with the environment variables.

> ```make shell``` It runs the container interactively, it needs a .env file with the environment variables.

Commit message:

Refactoring and added the timeout as optional env variable.

README.md, after:

# HOME ASSISTANT HEALTH CHECKER

This is a really easy project to check the health of my **Home Assistant** installation on **Proxmox**.

It just checks periodically if the **Home Assistant** instance is up, and if not _stops_ and _starts_ again the _VM_ in **Proxmox**.

## Configuration (Environment Variables)

In order to work the program properly you need to set up some environment variables, to configure the access to **Home Assistant**, **Proxmox** and **Telegram** to notify you.

### For Home Assistant:
* **HA_URL_INTERNAL** (mandatory) The internal url in your network for the Home Assistant Installation.
> for example: https://192.168.1.111:8123
* **HA_URL_EXTERNAL** (mandatory)
> for example: https://myHomeAssistant.myDomain.com
* **HA_KEY** (mandatory) The key to have access to the Home Assistant API. For more info check [here](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/api/rest/).

### For Proxmox:
* **PROXMOX_URL** (mandatory) The URL of your Proxmox installation.
* > for example: https://192.168.1.111:8006
* **PROXMOX_KEY** (mandatory) The PVEAPIToken to use the proxmox API. More info [here](https://pve.proxmox.com/wiki/Proxmox_VE_API).
* **PROXMOX_VM_PATH** (mandatory) The path to the specific container or VM that hosts your Home Assistant installation.
* > for example: nodes/{your_node_name}/qemu/{your_vm/ct_id}/status

### For Telegram:
The notifications via Telegram are optional, if both variables are not filled, the system will work correctly but without notifying the changes. Only by the process itself.
For more information check [here](https://core.telegram.org/bots/api).
* **TELEGRAM_URL** (optional) The part of the URL that contains the bot information and the key. Format _{botId}:{key}_
> for example: bot123456:ABC************************
* **TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID** (optional) The ID of the chat that you want to send the messages to.
> for example: 12345678

### Other Variables:
* **RETRY_COUNT** (optional) This is the number of retries that the program should wait until stop/start again the **Home Assistant** VM instance in **Proxmox**
If no value is provided, the programs uses **3 by default**.
> for example: 8
* **SLEEP_TIME_SECONDS** (optional) This is the number of seconds that the process wait to check if **Home Assistant** is alive.
If no value is provided, the programs uses **60 seconds by default**.
> for example: 100
* **TIMEOUT_HA_SECONDS** (optional) This is the number of seconds that the query to check if **Home Assistant** is alive waits until get a timeout error.
If no value is provided, the programs uses **30 seconds by default**.
> for example: 45

## Makefile

Inside the Makefile you have some commands:

> ```make run``` It runs the container, it needs a .env file with the environment variables.

> ```make shell``` It runs the container interactively, it needs a .env file with the environment variables.
